System is a class in the package java.lang with a number of static members that are available to Java programs.  Two members that are useful for console output are System.out and System.err.  Both System.out and System.err are PrintStream objects.  PrintStream is a subclass of FilterOutputStream, itself a subclass of OutputStream (discussed above), and its main purpose is to translate a wide variety of data types into streams of bytes that represent that data in characters according to some encoding scheme. System.out and System.err both display text to a console where the user can read it, however what this means exactly depends on the platform used and the environment in which the program is running.  In BlueJay and Eclipse IDE, for example, there is a special "terminal" window that will display this output.  If the program is launched in Windows, the output will be sent to the DOS prompt (usually this means that you have to launch the program from the command line to see the output). System.out and System.err differ in what they're supposed to be used for.  System.out should be used for normal program output, System.err should be used to inform the user that some kind of error has occurred in the program.  In some situations, this may be important.  In DOS, for instance, a user can redirect standard output to some other destination (a file, for example), but error output will not be redirected, but rather displayed on the screen.  If this weren't the case, the user might never be able to tell that an error had occurred.   Versions of Java prior to J2SE 1.4 only supported stream-based blocking I/O. This required a thread per stream being handled, as no other processing could take place while the active thread blocked waiting for input or output.  This was a major scalability and performance issue for anyone needing to implement any Java network service.  Since the introduction of NIO (New I/O) in J2SE 1.4, this scalability problem has been rectified by the introduction of a non-blocking I/O framework (though there are a number of open issues in the NIO API as implemented by Oracle). The non-blocking IO framework, though considerably more complex than the original blocking IO framework, allows any number of "channels" to be handled by a single thread. The framework is based on the Reactor Pattern.